---
layout: post
title:  "Tour NYC Libraries and Archives with METRO and A.R.T. This Fall"
date:   2016-10-01

---
Metropolitan New York Library Council (METRO) and Archivists Roundtable of New York City (A.R.T.) are visiting libraries and archives in and around NYC this fall! Please join us for one of our fabulous tours.



**New York Society Library - Friday, October 21 at 1:00 p.m.

Our tour of New York Society Library will feature highlights from the collection, information about the history of the library, and project updates from the librarians. It will be led by Matthew Bright and Sara Holliday.



**Archives of American Art - Friday, November 4 at 4:00 p.m.**

Led by Hilary Price, this tour will allow visitors to view recent acquisitions of artists' papers, gallery records, and art historians' and critics' papers.



**Grolier Club - Friday, November 11 at 2:00 p.m.**

Join us for a tour of Grolier Club and a show-and-tell of items from the library’s collection. This tour will be led by Sophia Dahab and Barbara Bieck.



**Interference Archive - Thursday, November 17 at 4:00 p.m.**

Please join us for a Thursday afternoon tour of Interference Archive. With guidance from Bonnie Gordon, we'll take a look at the archive's collections of posters, flyers, publications, photographs, books, T-shirts and buttons, moving images, audio recordings, and other materials from political movements fostering social change.



**Explorer's Club - Friday, November 18 at 2:00 p.m.**
See the research collections, library and historic maps of the Explorer’s Club. The tour will be led by archivist and Curator of Research Collections Lacey Flint.



**Transit Museum - Friday, December 2 at 4:00 p.m.**
Led by Desiree Alden-Gonzalez, Archivist & Acting Collections Manager, our tour will include the Gabrielle Shubert Research Center. Opened in 2015, the center is a newly constructed 14,000 square foot collection storage space. It houses the museum’s collection artifacts and their growing archival collections, including books, documents, photographs, media, architectural and engineering drawings. The center is open by appointment only one day a week to researchers, making this is a great opportunity for A.R.T. and METRO members.



**The Cloisters - Friday, December 9, 3:30 p.m.**
Join Jeanne-Marie Musto for a guided tour of the Cloisters on this limited-edition tour. Our visit will focus on the rare items found in the Treasury.



Sign up for our tours -- or join the waitlist -- via our [Eventbrite page](http://www.eventbrite.com/o/metropolitan-new-york-library-council-8929654067).

Questions? Reach out to METRO at [events@metro.org](mailto:events@metro.org) & A.R.T. at [education@nycarchivists.org](mailto:education@nycarchivists.org).
