---
layout: post
title:  "Metadata Librarian - Columbia University Libraries"
date:   2017-11-01
excerpt: "The purpose of this position is to develop, document, maintain and apply standards and procedures for creating metadata used to manage, preserve, and provide access to digital content generated by the Libraries; to work with the Digital Library and Scholarly Technologies Group to ensure and coordinate integration of digital metadata..."
tag: job
---

### Description###

The purpose of this position is to develop, document, maintain and apply standards and procedures for creating metadata used to manage, preserve, and provide access to digital content generated by the Libraries; to work with the Digital Library and Scholarly Technologies Group to ensure and coordinate integration of digital metadata with local and national systems, and to provide full original cataloging for resources in a variety of languages, formats and media.


### Responsibilities###

1. Assists in original metadata creation, application and maintenance for digital and physical objects system-wide. This includes consultations, creating and maintaining documentation, data analysis, training, quality control, data transformation. Provide full original cataloging for resources in a variety of languages, formats and media, including identity management.
2. Is responsible for remediation of metadata from legacy digital projects or for metadata provided by outside sources, such as collector-created metadata accompanying a collection to be digitized. This includes editing, restructuring, adding subject and geographic access points, relationship designators, reconciling against external authorities, merging spreadsheets, exporting data sets, data set preparation and staging in GitHub.
3. Contributes to departmental, division and national cataloging/metadata policy and procedure development by identifying issues, preparing documentation and training.
4. Is professionally involved on the local and national level, including committee work, conference attendance and presentation
5. Assists in the evaluation and implementation of new tools & standards with the goal of continuously improving metadata workflows.




### Qualifications###

Minimum Qualifications

1. Working knowledge of identities management systems, including ORCID, VIAF/ISNI. Experience in name authority work and disambiguation strategies
2. In depth knowledge of metadata format and content standards with working knowledge of cataloging standards and procedures (RDA, MODS, MARC 21, LCSH, FAST )
3.  Working knowledge of metadata tools and systems
4.  Working knowledge of XML/XSLT/XQuery and RDF/SPARQL
5.  Familiarity with linked data concepts
6.  Demonstrated aptitude for using technology creatively to continually improve processes that support data provision, data quality, data transformation, and long-term data management
7.  Demonstrated work in non-MARC metadata creation and curation, experience in providing technical services support for academic repositories and quality control for diverse projects  
 


Preferred Qualifications

1.  Ability to work across divisions and with faculty and scholars
2.  Excellent organizational and project management skills
3.  Aptitude for complex, analytical and detailed work
4.  Effective verbal and written communication skills
5. Understanding of the research and grant process




### Compensation###

Competitive


### Location###

New York, New York


### URL###

[http://library.columbia.edu/index.html](http://library.columbia.edu/index.html)

### To Apply###

[https://academicjobs.columbia.edu/applicants/Central?quickFind=65445](https://academicjobs.columbia.edu/applicants/Central?quickFind=65445)  


### Company Information###

As one of the world's leading research universities, Columbia University in the City of New York provides outstanding opportunities to work and grow in a dynamic, multicultural, intellectual community. The Columbia University Libraries comprises a diverse and engaged staff committed to furthering the University's teaching and research mission through innovation, collaboration, and a commitment to excellence.

Columbia University is an Equal Opportunity/Affirmative Action Employer and strongly encourages individuals of all backgrounds and cultures to consider this position.  




